My name is Dr. Francisco Javier Guzmán Herrera and I am a Scientist working for the Arabic Language Technologies department at the Qatar Computing Research Institute (QCRI). My field of work is set at the intersection of Language Technologies and Machine Learning. I have extensive experience in the field of Machine Translation, where I started working since 2006. My research has been published in top-tier venues such as the _Association of Computational Linguistics_ (ACL), the international _Conference on Empirical Methods for Natural Language Processing_ (EMNLP), _International Conference on Computational Linguistics_ (COLING), among others. Together with my team, I participated in several international machine translation competitions such as: _Seventh Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation_ (WMT) 2012, _International Workshop on Spoken Language Translation_ (IWSLT) 2013, _National Institute of Standards and Technology_ (NIST) _Open MT Evaluation 2015_, consistently obtaining top rankings for Arabic-English and Spanish-English language pairs. In 2014, we obtained the “Best in show” award at the _BBC’s NewsHack III – Language Tech_ event in London, U.K., where international teams competed to have the best language-technologies application for news.  I have been involved in pushing the boundaries of the field of machine translation evaluation using discourse information. Last year, our metric (_discotk_) won the WMT2014 metrics evaluation campaign. Before joining QCRI, I collaborated in teams dealing with Speech Technology (Tecnológico de Monterrey, 2011) and Machine Translation (Carnegie Mellon University, 2008-2011). I obtained my PhD from the Instituto Tecnológico y de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey, in Mexico; and was a visiting scholar at the Language Technologies Institute at Carnegie Mellon University from 2008-2009, where I took part of DARPA’s GALE evaluation program, under the Rosetta (IBM) consortium.